---
title:  "[Reproducible research and collaboration in git + Github]: Workshop preparation meeting"
date:   "2024-09-12"
output: github_document
---

**Attendees:**

-   Daniel Morillo-Cuadrado
    [dvmorillo\@psi.uned.es\>](mailto:dvmorillo@psi.uned.es){.email} [DMC]

-   Kevin Bairos-Novak
    [kbairosnovak\@gmail.com](mailto:kbairosnovak@gmail.com){.email} [KBN]

**Scribe:** DMC

**Schedule:** 09:00 UTC - 10:00 UTC

# Action points

## Decide workshop approach

### Discussion

-   Proposed instructor roles: DMC facilitator, KBN co-facilitator (moderation,
    technical assistance, comments)

### Agreements

-   **Approved**: 8 participants (ideal), 10 hard limit (if high demand)

-   **Approved**: Agreement on proposed instructor roles

### Tasks

-   **DMC**: Find out about split rooms [ASAP]

-   **KBN**: Propose system for providing technical assistance [09-30]

-   **DMC**: Add technical assistance info to slides [10-02]

## Decide contents

### Discussion

-   KBN proposes to test the slides with lab colleagues

### Tasks

-   **KBN**: Send DMC UQ logo [ASAP]

-   **DMC**: Update contents [09-20]

-   **KBN**: Test contents [09-30]

## Schedule next meeting

### Discussion

-   October 8 the latest according to schedule (best before October 7)

### Agreements

-   **Approved**: Set on October 3, same schedule

# Next meeting

-   **Date**: 2024-10-03

-   **Schedule**: 09:00 UTC - 10:00 UTC

# **Task summary:**

## DMC

-   Find out about split rooms [ASAP]

-   Add technical assistance info to slides [10-02]

-   Update contents [09-20]

## KBN

-   Propose system for providing technical assistance [09-30]

-   Send DMC UQ logo [ASAP]

-   Test contents [09-30]
